>> Kyle Simpson: We now have
a working service worker, and
we wanna start doing
something useful with it.
And one of the things that we're gonna
need right off the bat is the ability to
communicate with our service
worker through messages,
similar to how we communicated
from the web worker to the page.
Now, when we did web workers
in the earlier exercise,
that was a dedicated web worker.
And so
all we had to do was self.postMessage,
because there's only one page that
that worker could be attached to.
Because the service worker might
be controlling multiple pages,
it's a little slightly more
complicated to do the messaging, and
we're gonna walk through that.
So the first thing that we're gonna do is
write a function to send a message
to our service worker from the page.
We're in blog JS, and we're gonna
write a function called sendSWMessage.
And I'm gonna pass it a target,
which is an optional thing, and we'll
see a little bit later why we have that.
So if the target's been specified, then
we wanna say target.postMessage, sorry.
We also need the message here,
message and target, postMessage(msg);.
>> Kyle Simpson: Otherwise,
if the (svcworker) has been set,
then we wanna use that.
>> Kyle Simpson: And finally,
if neither one of those has been provided,
which shouldn't really happen.
But this is just sort of a fallback
in case, then we wanna call
navigator.serviceWorker.controller.postMe-
ssage(msg);.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
now how do we listen for
messages from the service worker?
We know how to send to it, but
how do we listen to messages from it?
We're gonna
say
navigator.serviceWorker.controller.addEve-
ntListener,
>> Kyle Simpson: ("message"),
and onSWMessage,
is the function that we'll define.
And actually,
it's take out the controller part.
It's a
navigator.serviceWorker.AddEventListener.
This one didn't end up needing to be
an async function, so I'll take that off.
Let's define an onSWMessage function.
>> Kyle Simpson: So I'm going to
de-structure the event object that's
coming in, because I know it's
gonna have data property on it.
>> Kyle Simpson: But I'm also gonna
need the event object itself, and
you'll see why in just a moment.
So if the data object that I've
been set has a property on it
called requestStatusUpdate,
that's not a special thing.
That's literally one that I'm making up.
So we're gonna send a message from
the service worker to the page, and
I wanna listen for that kind of message.
So if that's what's been asked for,
so basically, the server is gonna ask
the page hey page, can you please
give me an update on some stuff?
What do we want for
the service worker to know about?
Well, specifically,
when we say status update,
we want the serviceWorker to know if
we're online, and if we're logged in.
Now, the online part is actually
discoverable in the service worker,
because navigator.online is
available in the service worker.
But I have been unable to find any way
to get the events in the service worker,
the online, offline events.
So my solution is have the page monitor
it, and tell the service worker, okay?
And then for isLoggedIn,
this requires accessing cookies,
and the service worker definitely
does not have access to cookies.
So because we know there's at least some
status that the page knows about that
a service worker can't, then we need to
know that information and pass it in.
So when we say status update,
we mean tell me if you're online, and
tell me if you're logged in.
And the reason for that will become
clearer later when we do our routing.
But there are different
things that we wanna do if
somebody is online, versus not online,
and that kinda thing.
We wanna handle certain failure conditions
differently, depending on those things.
So we need to write
a function to send
those status updates.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
that's gonna call our sendSWMessage.
We'll send a message, and
then we'll just pass along whatever
target's been specified, if any.
So our message needs to have isOnline,
and isLoggedIn.
So in our on service worker message,
we received a request from the service
worker to give us that data.
Why does the service
worker need to request?
Well, because the service
worker might have been revived.
So one of the things that we're gonna
do whenever the service worker starts
the first time is we're gonna say,
hey page,
tell me the status of these two things.
Cuz it might have died, and
we might be coming back.
Alternately, we could have been
storing this stuff in, say,
something like IndexedDB.
But it seems like we're gonna need to
communicate with the page anyways, so
might as well just ask the page for
the status.
So we're gonna say sendStatusUpdate.
Before we do that,
just for our debugging purposes,
I'm gonna put a console message here.
Received [INAUDIBLE] back to quote,
we're gonna say Received,
>> Kyle Simpson: Status update request
from service worker, responding.
That's just for sanity checking.
Okay, so we wanna send the status update,
and who do we wanna send it to?
Well you might think, well, we should
definitely send it to the SVC worker.
Well, it turns out, because there's
gonna be multiple places that we're
communicating with, the service worker's
communicating with multiple pages.
We're actually gonna,
in the service worker,
end up using what's called a message
channel to make these connections.
So it ends up creating a unique set
of ports that those communications
can happen over.
And we're talking about
local ports on the machines,
since it's from page to service worker.
So the message channel comes up
with a unique set of ports for
that communication to happen.
Which means we need to
send ours to that port,
cuz the message channel figured that out,
we didn't figure that out.
So the way we know what port is,
is with the event object,
if it has been specified,
it's going to be evt.ports[0]
>> Kyle Simpson: So evt.ports[0] is going
to be the target that
we post a message to.
It's not the service worker object,
it's a specific message channel port
that the service worker is listening on.
Let's do one other thing, which is
that when we pass in this message,
let's actually give it one
wrapping object names.
So we're gonna call this a statusUpdate,
you asked for a status update, so
let's give you a status update.
That'll make it easier for us to determine
in the service worker that this thing is,
in fact, a status update.
Okay, we're sending the status
update when requested.
But there are other times
that we should go ahead and
proactively send that status update, so
that the service worker stays in sync.
So one of those times might be when
there was a controller change.
So we can say sendStatusUpdate, and
we wanna target the service worker.
>> Kyle Simpson: For that message, we
probably wanna do that right after we get
the first reference to a service worker,
just in case that we're able to get
that information into it that quickly.
>> Kyle Simpson: But maybe for
our purposes, the most important place for
us to do that update is in the online and
offline messages in here.
We're not passing in any targets, so
it's just gonna automatically pick the
currently active service workers in there.